The Nandrogen white paper is now up on
the oralonly.com website and you can
read all of the main points and I'm I'm
going to go over a bunch of them because
in the comments I see people asking
questions and the white paper is where I
want everybody to go get their answers
from because what we don't want to do is
make casual commentary which might leave
something out or not describe it
absolutely perfectly because you know,
hey, this is a pharmaceutical. Like you
really want to know what you're doing
and you want to have all of your
questions answered.
Hi, my name's John Jaquish. I'm a doctor
of biomedical engineering which makes me
a unique individual that comments on a
lot of things, human physiology,
exercise science, sometimes
pharmaceutical related if it happens to
be in one of the areas that I speak on.
Uh anabolic hormones is one of the areas
that I speak on and so what I want to do
today is announce that the Nandrogen
white paper is now up on the
oralonly.com website and you can read
all of the main points and I'm I'm going
to go over a bunch of them because in
the comments I see people asking
questions and the the questions were
answered on the website because we
wanted to make sure it was done in the
proper scientific documentation type
way. So, the white paper is where I want
everybody to go get their answers from
because what we don't want to do is make
casual commentary which might leave
something out or not describe it
absolutely perfectly. So, everything's
got to go back to that to that one
correct source which is detailed enough
to give a very accurate picture because
you know, hey, this is a pharmaceutical.
Like you really want to know what you're
doing and you want to have all of your
questions answered. You also want to be
in touch with a physician. So, what when
you go to Oral Only and sign up,
they connect you with a physician that
is going to monitor your progress, your
gains, and look at your blood work
throughout the entire experience. What
are some uh the topics that we cover in
the white paper? So, first is like just
a general of like what
we're looking at here, fast-acting
testosterone.
What's the reason for it? You'll see
people talk about microdosing
their TRT injections.
That's really a silly idea because when
you take testosterone enanthate or
cypionate, which is basically the only
two things that get prescribed to people
for injectable testosterone
therapy,
those are long-acting testosterone
chemicals. Like the the attachment to
the molecule, the ester, either
enanthate or cypionate, makes sure that
the testosterone lasts in your body
in proportion
up to 10 days.
Sometimes it says 12 days, sometimes it
says 14, but
right it right in there. There's
definitely you can you can still see
exogenous
hormone in the body, and exogenous
testosterone 14 days, you know, above
above normal. So, if you take it every
day, but it lasts 14 days, are you
getting any benefit from microdosing it?
Maybe a little just so cuz if you took
one big shot in a week, you'd have it go
up and then go down. But, even the
variability within the week, I I put it
in the graphic that's on the first page
of the white paper, and you can give
that a a serious look. You'll see that
beginning of the week with one shot and
end of the week with one shot for
regular TRT,
it's it's not that different just
because within 7 days it's certainly
less than 10. So, you're still going to
have a high androgen level.
But, it's long-acting. So, what you do
not want is high testosterone in the
evening or in the afternoon, evening,
and at night.
You only want high testosterone in the
morning. So, when you look at that
graphic, really study that graphic. With
Nandrolone, spikes in the morning, drops
off later in the day.
The body really doesn't respond with the
type of side effects if there is an
effect. I'll go over each one of them
individually. So, like for example, one
of the first things we talk about is the
durability of clinical response. So,
over an extended period of time, you
don't see a collection of side effects
that get worse and worse and worse like
SHBG going up, which over weeks and
weeks gets worse and worse and worse
with standard TRT dosages. Basically,
you the way you should see this is the
testosterone is having a profound effect
on you
in the saturation of receptor sites.
Let's say you get up at 8:00 a.m., 7:30,
you squirt it under your tongue at 8:00
a.m. You have hot really high
testosterone from 8:00 a.m. to 10:00
a.m. So, for about 2 hours. Then it
begins to significantly drop off and
also does not suppress your natural
testosterone
function, your natural testicular
function. Like so, you don't have
testicular shrinkage, you don't become
infertile, and I'll I'll get to that as
I go down this document. So, hematocrit
is another thing that goes up when
you're on standard testosterone
replacement therapy or if somebody's
using a cycle of anabolics or something
like that. What What that is is the
blood gets thick, and that can be a
pretty significant problem. And so,
you'll see guys who are on TRT, they
have to give blood
every so often so their bodies
continually renewing the blood supply to
keep the blood from becoming too sick.
I don't I mean I never had that side
effect. I never used enough anabolic,
you know, beyond the the sort of lower
end of the TRT
spectrum. So, I never had that problem.
Um but now I know I'll never have it
because when you use fast-acting
testosterone,
if you have a hematocrit response at
all, it's typically within the normal
range. So, if you're one of those people
that you don't want to worry about that
side effect, looks like you're not going
to need to worry about that side effect.
So, that's great news. Less conversion
to DHT. So, if you're trying to keep
your hairline,
which I didn't. This is This is a
micropigmentation, by the way.
Um so, when when you're trying to keep
your hairline, injectable testosterone
really sucks. So, like I was already
like losing my hair in my in my late 20s
and I got an early prescription to
testosterone replacement therapy because
I uh I had a severely damaged testicle
because of a a rugby hit and the other
one was damaged. So, I guess I had two
damaged and one had to be just cut out
of me. That did not tickle, in case
you're wondering. It really hurt. And
that's why I got the prescription so
young, but
then I had all the not all the side
effects, like I said. I didn't have the
hematocrit, but I had the DHT problem
and it caused my my hair to to go very
quickly. Not a problem for people who
don't go down the injectable path and
instead use Nandrolone.
Prostate. That's another question. There
does not seem to be any
response with fast-acting testosterone.
Uh or maybe only it says you maybe only
a modest response when it comes to the
prostate. Now, I think prostate concerns
with testosterone replacement therapy
have been overblown
because I I see that coming up and I see
that in the comments.
Yet, when you do a literature search,
you you don't find people who've been on
TRT who like had anything other than a
temporary enlargement of the prostate.
Still something that contributes to
prostate
cancer at least just in a correlation
perspective. And what I mean by
correlation, imagine if every time you
have a burger, there's a car crash
outside.
That's a weird coincidence. Some people
would say burgers cause car crashes.
That's
a an example of correlation, not
causation. So, if two things happen at
the same time, it doesn't mean one
caused the other.
And so, I think like a lot of time like
guys get older, they have an enlarged
prostate, they happen to be on TRT,
maybe they
just blame the testosterone while almost
everybody their age is having similar
problems. So, keep that in mind. And and
like I said, the literature really
doesn't support the idea that TRT is
damaging to the prostate, but rest
assured, this version
very little effect. Preservation of the
HPG axis.
Axis. This really means that from a
testicular perspective, from all of your
endocrine system, like what gets
disrupted? And the answer is either
nothing or
very little changes when you go through
this. Even after you've been using
fast-acting testosterone for months on
end. Uh here, I'm just going to read to
you. Fast-acting testosterone preserves
HPG axis function to substantially
greater degree than long-acting
injectable TRT.
Very important. Here is a question about
fertility cuz we had this
question a lot. Like a lot of guys want
TRT, but they don't know if they're ever
going to have a kid or not, and they
don't want to like
cut that out, you know, cuz they may
might meet the woman of their dreams, as
I did, and decide, you know, whether or
not you're going to have kids. You you
definitely want that option. So, the
fertility preservation.
Now, remember, I've said in other
videos, this doesn't shut you down. Does
that mean there's no change?
I don't think it means there's no
change, but let me just read you right
from the document. Fast-acting
testosterones offers superior
preservation
of spermatogenesis
compared with conventional TRT,
though fertility cannot be guaranteed.
And I think that's mostly there because
you can misuse fast-acting testosterone
and use it later in the day, and that
will end up shutting you down. So, don't
do that. Like, if if you get hungover
and you wake up at 2:00 in the
afternoon, just don't do your
testosterone that day.
Don't think you're going to just Oh,
I'll stay up late tonight.
You you screwed up the circadian rhythm.
Just skip it for the day.
It's not like you were going to train
that day anyway, and if you were going
to train that day, then you really need
to rethink your life because don't be
hungover. Don't train hungover. I don't
know. I could I could go down a list of
poor choices that were made. Let me
continue here. SHBG and free
testosterone preservation. Fast-acting
testosterone may preserve
free testosterone availability by
reducing SHBG
mediated sequestration.
That's a great word. I wonder why they
use that word. Again, SHBG is if
anything driven down, which makes you
more anabolic, not less. Whereas,
regular TRT makes you less anabolic over
time because SHBG is going up and more
testosterone is basically being arrested
or grabbed a hold of by the sex
hormone-binding globulin and where it
binds, it makes the testosterone inert
or worthless. There's also a chart here
which talks about different things that
are associated with TRT
and how
this version of testosterone corresponds
and deals with those things. So, and it
has the clinical reference
on the on the far column. So, I
encourage everybody to look at that
table. I think this is a I chose to
arrange it this way and I love it
because instead of just having a list of
references and you're not really sure
which reference connects to which issue,
I want to be as transparent as possible
and have everybody see this is the study
that found this one thing about fast
acting testosterone. I'm going to go
read that study because if that's like
the one thing you're concerned about,
get all the information. And, you know,
when just because I have a PhD doesn't
mean I'm right all the time. Fact check
me. And that's part of the reason why
this document exists. Like
there is a paper trail and I made it I
really made it more like a paper freeway
so everybody can go exactly where they
need to go and find the right answer.
That's super important. And then this is
a this is a medication. So, you know,
time to time to take it seriously and
really do your homework.
And when you do that, you're going to
know you're doing the right thing. So, I
encourage everybody. Like, even if I
said it and you think that's good enough
for me, read the study anyway because
that way you've seen it. And
I think that's pretty much it. I
encourage everybody to go to
oralonly.com and read this white paper.
It is, I think, an absolute masterpiece
and it will absolutely change
testosterone replacement therapy
>> all the way into the future. I think
this is this is the absolute greatest
thing to ever happen to hormone therapy.
Ask questions in the comments and I will
see you on the next one. If this video
helped you, I want you to subscribe and
follow. I'm going to put out videos on a
regular basis. I think they're going to
help a whole lot of people, especially
if you're one of those people that
doesn't just instantly grow from lifting
regular weights.
We've got the answer for you.